# *Car dealership* - Final project of the course *Programming Methodologies*

>Final project for the course "Programming Methodologies" from the University of Florence.

- [*Car dealership* - Final project of the course *Programming Methodologies*](#car-dealership---final-project-of-the-course-programming-methodologies)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Project structure](#project-structure)

## Introduction

The goal of this project is to realize the basic functionality of a dealership, i.e., sales and
rental of vehicles. The dealer is able to inform potential buyers about the availability or
unavailability of a vehicle and provides two options for renting a vehicle: classic long-term rental and
leasing.  
Each vehicle is made up of several components (here for simplicity we assume they are only engine and
tires), that together determine its selling price. The monthly fee, on the other hand, depends on the
engine power and the Euro emission standard assigned to the vehicle.  
Finally, there is a mechanism that displays various information of interest regarding a vehicle.

## Project structure

This project uses Java 1.8. The code is organized into five packages:

- `project.toti.andrea.dealer`: defines:  `VehiclesDealer`,class implementing a car dealership; interface and implementations of the strategy pattern; abstract base class and implementations of the events generated by `VehiclesDealer`; interface of the event visitor; interface for `VehiclesDealer`'s observers.

- `project.toti.andrea.observer`: contains an implementation of `VehiclesDealerObserver`.

- `project.toti.andrea.parts`: contains vehicles's parts classes and the related factories.

- `project.toti.andrea.vehicle`: class hierarchy of the vehicles; interface and implementations of decorators; interface of the vehicle visitor.

- `project.toti.andrea.visitor`: contains an implementation for `VehicleVisitor`.

